# Smart Contract Scam Checker for Decentralized Finance (SCSC)

This repository contains the code for the BA project "Smart Contract Scam Checker for Decentralized Finance (SCSC)"  
Installation instructions can be found in INSTALL.md

## Abstract
While researching smart contract vulnerabilities in a previous work, some of the identified vulnerabilities were not placed accidentally. What we observed was that malicious develop-ers used the latest trends, blockchain features, and promises of quick money to gain the people’s trust. Afterwards, they used an assortment of technical tricks and exploits to trans-fer the invested money into their own wallets. The number of scams happening daily was surprising. It is more likely that a newly published contract is a scam than it is legitimate.  
The goal of this project was to find ways of identifying such scams early. We analysed com-mon scams and implemented seven indicators. These indicators collect data from external APIs and process them using logic, best practises as well as statistical observations extracted from the dataset, which was gathered throughout the creation of this project. Each of the indicators calculate their score, which are then all processed further with different ap-proaches.  
The first approach uses a weighted average of all the indicators scores to calculate the final score. Based on the collected dataset, a cut-off point is defined and this either classifies the smart contract as a scam or legitimate. The second approach takes all the indicator scores as features for a Support Vector Machine with a Radial Basis Function kernel. Finally, the third approach uses the XGBoost library, taking the scores as features and training on the collected dataset.  
The results show that this project can successfully differentiate between obvious scams and obvious benign contracts. On the test dataset, the custom classifier shows an accuracy of 71%, the SVM classifier an accuracy of 83% and the XGBoost classifier accuracy of 86%. However, the results of the test dataset show that it is difficult to mark newly created smart contracts as benign.   
An early analysis of new smart contracts is missing crucial information for some of the more influential indicators to take a decision. On the collected test dataset, the XGBoost classifier, which had the best overall accuracy only marked 20% newly created benign smart contracts accurately. A bigger, balanced test dataset is necessary to verify this weakness. To mitigate this weakness, a periodic rescan or a longer delay between pair creation and automated analysis is necessary.  
